Assignments
======================================================================

If not otherwise stated homework in all sections and classes is
the same. All lectures are assigned Monday's. Homework are due Friday.
Therefore we have not posted expicict due dates, as they are obvious
from the calendar.

You are welcome to work ahead, but check back in case the homework has
been updated. 

As you will be doing some discussions, please PREFACE YOUR POSTS with
your Full Name.

Week 1
------

Video V1:
    Do Polls in Section 0. Watch Videos in Section 1: Units 1 and 2

Video V2:
    Watch Videos in Section 2: Units 3, 4, and 5. Note these units
    have overlap with Unit 2 of Section 1.

Discussion D1:
    Cosider Discussion D1 after Section 1. Please post on topic "Why
    is Big Data interesting to`me" and also comment on at least 2
    other posts. 

Paper P1:
      This requires to write a paper that is from one to two pages in
      length. Please use the 2 column ACM proceedings Format. Write a
      paper discussing the following topics:
      
      - What is Big Data?
      - Why is Big Data interesting to me? (Summarize and/or contrast
        positngs in the dicsussion list)
      - Why is Big Data uninteresting to me? (Summarize and/or
        contrast positngs in the dicsussion list)
      - What limitations does Big Data Analytics have?
      
Week 2
------

Video V3:
      Please watch Section 3 Unit 6. Total Length 2.5 hours 

Discussion D3:
	   Consider Discussion D3 after Section 3 Please post on topic
	   "Where are the Big Data Jobs now and in future? Discuss
	   anything you can share -- areas that are hots, good online
	   sites etc." and also comment on at least 2 other posts.

Paper P2:
	  This requires to write a paper that is from one to two pages in
      	  length. Please use the 2 column ACM proceedings Format.
	  Write a paper discussing the following topics:

	  * What is the role of Big Data in health?
	  * Discuss any or all
	    areas from telemedicine, personalized (precision)
	    medicine, personal monitors like Fitbit, privacy issues.

Week 3
------

Video V4:
      Please watch Section 4 Unit 7-9. Total Length 3.5 hours

Discussion D4:
	   Consider Discussion D4 after Section 4 Please post on topic
	   "Sports and Health Informatics" Which are most interesting
	   job areas; which are likely to make most progress; which
	   one would you work in given similar offers in both fields"
	   and also comment on at least 2 other posts. 

Paper P3:
         This requires to write a paper that is from one to two pages in
      	 length. Please use the 2 column ACM proceedings Format.
	
	 Using what we call Big Data (such as video) and Little Data
	 (such as Baseball numerical statistics) in Sports
	 Analytics. Write a paper discussing the following topics:

	 * Which offer most opportunity on what sports?
	 * How is Big Data and Little Data applied to the Olympics2016?

Term Paper and Project Report Assignment:
     Please review the disscussion in the Course overview about term
     and projects
     
     * Review the Guidlines for the project and term paper.
     * Identify if you are likely to do a project or a term paper
     * Build teams, chose your team members wisely. For example if you
       have 3 people in the team and only two do the work, you still get
       graded based on a 3 person team.
     * Decide for a topic that you want to do and the team. Commit to
       it by end of Week 4.

Week 4
------

Video V5:
      Please watch Section 5 Units 10, 11. Total Length 2.5 hours.


Task:
	Get your software set up for later lectures and final project. 
 
	First some background: You will need modest software for some
	of lectures and homeworks. This can be most easily done in
	Python (Java is also possible, but no other languages are
	allowed). Software such as R or D3.js are accepted in the
	final project

Python:
	Learn Python and do a simple Python application demonstarting:
	
	* a linechart
	* a barchart

	Learn pandas and demonstrate how to create 

	* a linechart
	* a barchart

	Review of Scipy

	* look at the scipy manual and be aware what you can do with
	it in case you choese a Project



Futuresystems:
	* Obtain an account on Futuresystems.org and join project
	  FG511. Not that this will take time and you need to do this
	  ASAP. No late assignments will be accepted. If you are late
	  this assignment will receive 0 points.
	  Fill out the Poll TBD 
	
ChameleonCloud:
	* Obtain an account on https://www.chameleoncloud.org. Fill
	  out the Poll TBD

Openstack:
	* Inform yourself about OpenStack and how to start and stop
	  virtual machines via the commandline.
	* Optionally, you can use cloudmesh_client for this (If you
          use cloudmesh client you will get bonus points). 

Python H:
	You can find sample software and paper projects in Chapters
	two and three (page 7):
	http://openedx.scholargrid.org/c4x/SoIC/INFO590/asset/hw4-bdaafall2015.pdf
	(Links to an external site.)

	.. note: Prashanth: The content of this file will move to sphinx
 
	Java and Python are installed on our cloud as explained in
	Unit 11. Here you chose between Python on your laptop, Python
	in cloud or Java in cloud.

	DO - Python on your laptop:
	   If you elect to use python on your laptop, be careful with
	   your setup. Please read up on **virtualenv** and use that
	   instead of youst overwriting the python environment from
	   your computer. Please use an IDE if you like such as
	   PyCharm. However you can also use editors such as emacs and
	   vi/vim which are available for all operating systems. When
	   using python we assume you use pip. Please read up on it.
	
 	.. note:: The follwoing will be changed.
		  Submit results to show your software is set up and running.
		  Solve task following instructions in chapters one and four of
		  http://openedx.scholargrid.org/c4x/SoIC/INFO590/asset/hw4-bdaafall2015.pdf
		  (Links to an external site.) or go to
		  http://bdaafall2015.readthedocs.org/en/latest/hw4.html- or go
		  to http://bdaafall2015.readthedocs.org/en/latest/hw4.html
		  .Submit your Java and Python program results to IU Canvas
 
Discussion D5:
	   Create a NEW post to discuss final project you want to do
	   and look for team members on Slack for Software Projects if
	   that's what you want. Please use the #project channel
	   https://bdaafall2015.slack.com/messages/project/ for that
	   purpose. Once you form your team, you can also create your
	   own public or private channel for your team in Slack.

	   .. note:: the link will change we no longer use slack

Homework Programming:
	 Consider the Python/Java code available on Section 6 Unit 13
 	 “Files” tab (the third one) as HiggsClassIIUniform.py or
	 HiggsClassIIUniform.java. This software is also available on
	 FutureSystems virtual machines.When run it should produce
	 results like the file TypicalResultsHW5.docx on the same tab.
	 This code corresponds to 42000 background events and 300
	 Higgs. Background is uniformly distributed and Higgs is a
	 Normal (Gaussian) distribution centered at 126 with width of
	 2. Produce 2 more figures (plots) corresponding to
	 experiments with a factor of 10 more or a factor of 10 less
	 data. (Both Higgs and Background increase or decrease by same
	 factor). Return the two new figures and your code as
	 Homework. What do you conclude from figures about ability to
	 see Higgs particle with different amount of data
	 (corresponding to different lengths of time experiment runs)
	 Due date October 25 Video V6: Video Review/Study Section 7
	 Units 12-15; total 3 hours 7 minutes. This is Physics
	 Informatics Section. Due date October 20
 
Discussion D6:
	   Post on Discussion D6 after Section 7, the “Physics” topic:
	   What you found interesting, remarkable or shocking about
	   the search for Higgs Bosons. Was it worth all that money?
	   Please also comment on at least 2 other posts. Note 15590
	   and 36624 share a discussion for residential students.
	   Please PREFACE YOUR POSTS with your login.

Due date October 20


Video V7: 
      Video Review/Study Section 8 "Technology Training - Plotviz"
      Unit - 15
 
Discussion D7:
	   Post on Discussion D7 on the topic : Which is the most
	   interesting/important of the 51 use cases in section 7.
	   Why? Also what is most interesting/important use case not
	   in group of 51? Please write one post and comment on
	   atleast 2 other posts in the discussionn. This will count
	   for your participation grades.

Week 6
------

There will be a term paper at end of course which is final project
worth 40% grade This can be individual or in a team of up to 3
students You can choose between a "serious paper" scientifically
examining technologies and application (see below for rules) OR
develop a simple software system with OpenStack available on
FutureSystems to support it. Only choose software option if you are
prepared. See
http://openedx.scholargrid.org/c4x/SoIC/INFO590/asset/FinalProjectGuidelines-bdaafall2015.pdf
(Links to an external site.) for discussion of software projects
 
Homework is to make a plan for your term paper and write a one page
summary which we will approve and give comments on. Note teaming can
change in actual final project. If you are in a team, each student
must submit an (identical) plan with a notation as to teaming. Note
teaming can change in actual final project.
 
Rules of Term paper Non software Final Project Format 1 inch margins,
Times Roman font size 12, 1.1 spacing. (minimum) Size of Report:
(including text, figures, citations). This is sum over a) and b) for
software/analytics

Individual:   9 pages
Team of 2: 14 pages
Team of 3: 18 Pages

Content Rules

Material may be taken from other sources but that must amount to at
most 25% of paper and must be cited Figures may be used

Topic: should be close to what you proposed. Please contact me if you
change significantly topic. Also inform me if you change teaming.
These changes are allowed; I just need to know/review The level should
be similar to a publishable paper or technical report

Discussion D10: Due Nov 23

Discuss what you learnt from video you watched in Section 11:Parallel
Computing and Clouds

Week 8
------

Homework H8: Due Dec 1
    Consider any 5 cloud or cloud like activities from list of 11 below.
    Describe the ones you chose and expalin what ways they could be used
    to generate an X-Informatics for some X.

    http://aws.amazon.com/ (Links to an external site.) 
    http://www.windowsazure.com/en-us/ (Links to an external site.) 
    https://cloud.google.com/compute/ (Links to an external site.)
    https://portal.futuresystems.org/ (Links to an external site.) 
    http://joyent.com/ (Links to an external site.) 
    https://pod.penguincomputing.com/ (Links to an external site.)
    http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/ (Links to an external site.) 
    http://www.salesforce.com/cloudcomputing/ (Links to an external site.) 
    http://earthengine.google.org/ (Links to an external site.) 
    http://www.openstack.org/ (Links to an external site.) 
    https://www.docker.com/ (Links to an external site.)


Week 9
------

	 Due Dec 11 and Available until Dec 18

	 40% Grade

	 See
	 http://openedx.scholargrid.org/c4x/SoIC/INFO590/asset/FinalProjectGuidelines-bdaafall2015.pdf
	 (Links to an external site.) (Links to an external site.)
	 (Links to an external site.)
 
Rules of Software Project:
      ASK for help if you are having problems. Either
      bdaacoursehelp@googlegroups.com or issue FutureSystems ticket.
      Your write-up should describe a) What you did b) results
      obtained and c) Software documentation including how to run. There is
      no length requirement

      Please submit write-up to Canvas PLUS 

      Please submit write-up and Software to Github.
 
Rules of Term paper:

    Non software Final Project Format 1 inch margins,
    Times Roman font size 12, 1.1 spacing. (minimum) Size of Report:
    (including text, figures, citations). This is sum over a) and b) for
    software/analytics

    Individual: 9 pages
    Team of 2: 14 pages
    Team of 3: 18 Pages

Content Rules

	Material may be taken from other sources but that must amount
	to at most 25% of paper and must be cited Figures may be used

Topic:
	should be close to what you proposed. Please contact me if you
	change significantly topic. Also inform me if you change
	teaming. These changes are allowed; I just need to know/review
	The level should be similar to a publishable paper or
	technical report Submit this to Canvas
 
	For teams, submit one copy only but the the team members NOT
	submitting should submit to Canvas, statement on teaming.

Discussion D11
	   Discuss what you learnt from videos you watched in last 2
	   weeks of class Sections 12-15; chose one of the topics: Web
	   Search and Text mining, Big Data Technology, Sensors, Radar

Due December 11


