Section 1 - Overview
======================================================================

This section has a technical overview of course followed by a broad
motivation for course.

The course overview covers it's content and structure. It presents the
X-Informatics fields (defined values of X) and the Rallying cry of
course: Use Clouds running Data Analytics Collaboratively processing
Big Data to solve problems in X-Informatics ( or e-X). The courses is
set up as a MOOC divided into units that vary in length but are
typically around an hour and those are further subdivided into 5-15
minute lessons.

The course covers a mix of applications (the X in X-Informatics) and
technologies needed to support the field electronically i.e. to
process the application data. The overview ends with a discussion of
course content at highest level. The course starts with a longish
Motivation unit summarizing clouds and data science, then units
describing applications (X = Physics, e-Commerce, Web Search and Text
mining, Health, Sensors and Remote Sensing). These are interspersed
with discussions of infrastructure (clouds) and data analytics
(algorithms like clustering and collaborative filtering used in
applications). The course uses either Python or Java and there are
Side MOOCs discussing Python and Java tracks.

The course motivation starts with striking examples of the data deluge
with examples from research, business and the consumer. The growing
number of jobs in data science is highlighted. He describes industry
trend in both clouds and big data. Then the cloud computing model
developed at amazing speed by industry is introduced. The 4 paradigms
of scientific research are described with growing importance of data
oriented version.He covers 3 major X-informatics areas: Physics,
e-Commerce and Web Search followed by a broad discussion of cloud
applications. Parallel computing in general and particular features of
MapReduce are described. He comments on a data science education and
the benefits of using MOOC's.



Unit 1.1 - Course Introduction
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Lesson 1 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We provide a short introduction to the course covering it's
content and structure. It presents the X-Informatics fields (defined
values of X) and the Rallying cry of course: Use Clouds running Data
Analytics Collaboratively processing Big Data to solve problems in
X-Informatics ( or e-X). The courses is set up as a MOOC divided into
units that vary in length but are typically around an hour and those
are further subdivided into 5-15 minute lessons. It follows
discussion of mechanics of course with a list of all the units
offered.

Video: http://youtu.be/GmE9dSQqVIM

Lesson 2 - Overall Introduction
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This course gives an overview of big data from a use case
(application) point of view noting that big data in field X drives the
concept of X-Informatics. It covers applications, algorithms and
infrastructure/technology (cloud computing). There are 3 versions of
Spring 2014 course: I400 Informatics at IU for Undergraduates, I590
Informatics at IU for Graduate students, I590 component of non
residential data science certificate. They differ in homework and
recommended/required lectures.

Video: http://youtu.be/mbZyXrVX4G4


Lesson 3 - Course Topics I 
---------

Geoffrey discusses some of the available units:

* Motivation: Big Data and the Cloud; Centerpieces of the Future Economy
* Introduction: What is Big Data, Data Analytics and X-Informatics
* Python for Big Data Applications and Analytics: NumPy, SciPy, MatPlotlib
* Using FutureGrid for Big Data Applications and Analytics Course
* X-Informatics Physics Use Case, Discovery of Higgs Particle; Counting Events and Basic Statistics Parts I-IV.


Video: http://youtu.be/9NgG-AUOpYQ

Unit 1.2 - Course Motivation
----------------------------------------------------------------------
