About This Course
-----------------

The Big Data Applications and Analytics course is an overview course in
Data Science and covers the applications and technologies (data
analytics and clouds) needed to process the application data. It is
organized around rallying cry: Use Clouds running Data Analytics
Collaboratively processing Big Data to solve problems in X-Informatics.

Requirements
------------

Python or Java experience (programming load is modest).

Learning Outcomes
-----------------

Students will gain broad understanding of Big Data application areas and
approaches used. This course is a good preparation for any student
likely to be involved with Big Data in their future.

Course Staff
------------

|Gregor von Laszewski|


Gregor von Laszewski
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Gregor von Laszewski is an Assistant Director of CLoud Computing in the
DSC. He is currently conducting research in Cloud computing as part of
the FutureGrid project in which he also serves as software architect. He
held a position at Argonne National Laboratory from Nov. 1996 – Aug.
2009 where he was last a scientist and a fellow of the Computation
Institute at University of Chicago. During the last two years of that
appointment he was on sabbatical and held a position as Associate
Professor and the Director of a Lab at Rochester Institute of Technology
focussing on Cyberinfrastructure. He received a Masters Degree in 1990
from the University of Bonn, Germany, and a Ph.D. in 1996 from Syracuse
University in computer science. He was involved in Grid computing since
the term was coined. He has been the lead of the Java Commodity Grid Kit
(http://www.cogkit.org) which provides till today a basis for many Grid
related projects including the Globus toolkit. Current research
interests are in the areas of Cloud computing. He is leading the effort
to develop a simple IaaS client available at as OpenSource project at
http://cloudmesh.github.io/client/

His Web page is located at http://gregor.cyberaide.org. To contact me
please send mail to laszewski@gmail.com

In his freetime he teaches Lego Robotics to highschool students. In 2015
the team won the 1st prize in programming design in Indiana. If you like
to volunteer helping in this effort please contact him.

He offers also the opportunity to work with him on interesting
independent studies. Current topics include cloudmesh, big data
benchmarking, scientific impact of supercomputer and data centers.


|Dr. Geoffrey Fox|


Dr. Geoffrey Fox
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Professor Geoffrey Fox received a PhD in Theoretical Physics from
Cambridge University and is now Professor of Informatics and Computing
as well as Physics at Indiana University, where he is director of the
Digital Science Center and Associate Dean for Research and Graduate
Studies at the School of Informatics and Computing. He previously held
positions at Caltech, Syracuse University and Florida State University.

He has published around 1,000 papers in Physics and Computer Science,
supervised the PhD candidacies of 65 students, and received an h-index
of 67 along with over 23000 citations. Professor Fox currently works in
applying Computer Science to Bioinformatics, Sensor Clouds, Earthquake
and Ice-sheet Science, and Particle Physics. He is principal
investigator of FutureGrid – a facility to enable development of new
approaches to computing. He is involved in several projects, including
the eHumanity portal, to enhance the capability of Minority Serving
Institutions. A Fellow of APS and ACM, he has experience in online
education and its use in MOOCs for areas like Data and Computational
Science.


|Hyungro Lee|


Hyungro Lee
~~~~~~~~~~~

Hyungro Lee is a PhD candidate in Computer Science at Indiana University
working with Dr. Geoffrey C. Fox. Prior to beginning the PhD program,
Hyungro worked as a software engineer in the Cyworld Group (social
networking platform in South Korea) at SK Communications, developing
communications platforms including emails, texts and messaging at large
scale to support over 40 million users. From this work he developed an
interest in how distributed systems achieve scalability and high
availability along with managing resources efficiently. He is currently
working on the Futuresystems project to support Big Data Analysis
Software Stacks in Virtual Clusters. He was also working on the
FutureGrid project, an NSF funded significant new experimental computing
grid and cloud test-bed to the research community, together with user
supports. His research interests are parallel and distributed systems,
and cloud computing

OpenEdX Support
---------------


|Sidd Maini|


Sidd Maini
~~~~~~~~~~

Sidd Maini works as a User Experience Engineer at the School of
Informatics and Computing. He currently leads and manages online course
technology for the Data Science graduate program. He holds a masters
degree in Information Architecture and Knowledge Management from the
Kent State University and a Masters degree in Human Computer Interaction
from the Indiana University. Sidd is responsible for managing the
OpenEdX software and if you have technicall issues with it you can
contact him.

Frequently Asked Questions
--------------------------

Do I need to buy a textbook?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No, the resources will be provided for every unit. However, there are
some optional textbooks if you would like to purchase one.

#. “Taming The Big Data Tidal Wave: Finding Opportunities in Huge Data
   Streams with Advanced Analytics”, Bill Franks Wiley ISBN:
   978-1-118-20878-6
#. “Doing Data Science: Straight Talk from the Frontline”, Cathy O'Neil,
   Rachel Schutt, O'Reilly Media, ISBN 978-1449358655

Representative Bibliography
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

#. `Big data: The next frontier for innovation, competition, and
   productivity <http://www.mckinsey.com/insights/business_technology/big_data_the_next_frontier_for_innovation>`__
#. `Big Data Spring 2015
   Class <https://bigdatacoursespring2015.appspot.com>`__

Where is the official IU calendar for the Fall?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Please follow this
`link <http://registrar.indiana.edu/official-calendar/official-calendar-fall.shtml>`__

.. |Gregor von Laszewski| image:: https://sites.google.com/site/laszewski/_/rsrc/1296058464115/home/gregor.jpg
.. |Dr. Geoffrey Fox| image:: /static/gcf.jpg
.. |Hyungro Lee| image:: /static/Hyungro.jpg
.. |Sidd Maini| image:: /static/Sidd.jpg
